# Qualitative Peer/Self Evaluation

### Name: Lyne, Eric
### Team Number: 6

(1.) On a scale from 1(poor) to 5(great), please judge the overall performance of your team: 5 

(2.) In the table below, identify a major strength of each of your group members in relation to the group’s goals and processes. Provide one concrete example to substantiate your answer. Include yourself!

| Group member's name | Strength | Example |
| ------------------- | -------- | ------- |
|Chae, Joo Yeon|Idea creation|Find alternatives to how a problem could be solved|
|Glueck, Jacob|Giving insight|He has a lot of expertise in a lot of areas and always knows what to do|
|Lyne, Eric|Troubleshooting|Finding where problems can be|
|Mera, Drew|Taking initiative|Does what he thinks should get done.|
|Sanni, Ayomi|Participation|He follows along well and gives insight whenever we're stuck.|
|Sun, Emily|Leading|Organizes when others struggle to know what to do.|

(3.) In the table below, identify a weakness of each of your group member’s in relation to the group’s process. Provide concrete examples to substantiate your answers. Include yourself!

| Group member’s name | Weakness | Example |
| ------------------- | -------- | ------- |
|Chae, Joo Yeon|Underspoken|Has troubles getting ideas across|
|Glueck, Jacob|Hard to follow|Does things very quickly alone|
|Lyne, Eric|Slow|Takes a long time to finish tasks|
|Mera, Drew|Stubborn|Can prefer personal ideas over other's ideas|
|Sanni, Ayomi|Easily distracted|Goes on phone|
|Sun, Emily|Unimaginitive|Resorts to basic solutions from team alpha commonly|

(4.) In the space below, identify approaches your group tried that worked well, and explain why they were effective.
Nobody overpowers each other, we all know our place and work quickly because of it.

(5.) In the space below, identify approaches your group tried that did not work well, and explain why they were ineffective.
We have a tendency to crowd around one project when several things could be accomplished simultaneously, this is mostly because there is only one robot that each of us are working on.

(6.) What can you do to improve your own contributions to the group’s goals and processes in the final part of the semester?
Be quicker and take more initiative with ideas.
(7.) Distribute points among the members of your team (not including you); a higher score means they have contributed more towards the team work. **The total points must sum to 1.**
*Example:
Alice: 0.25
Ben: 0.1
Charles: 0.25
Dave: 0.4*

### Scores:
Chae, Joo Yeon: 0.2
Glueck, Jacob: 0.2
Mera, Drew:  0.2
Sanni, Ayomi:  0.2
Sun, Emily:  0.2

